You said it may have been a place for them to get away from here.
From whatever they needed to get away from, whether it was dorms or apartments.
And I just noticed in the catalog, it doesn't look like they have a tremendous amount of dorm space here for the size of the university.
So a lot of people have to live off campus.
That is never going to change now because it is too big an operation.
They couldn't possibly have enough dorms to take care of this group.
In all of your years working here, did any co-ed ever come to you and ask you for some specific help that only a woman might ask for?
One time there was a beautiful girl
who came in to me and she was crying and I didn't you know and I took her into to the ladies room restroom and she was crying and crying and she had been she obviously had been bruised and battered and I said well I would like to call the authorities and oh no no no she didn't want that done
And I think, looking back, no, I would have certainly insisted that she do that.
But she was pleading me not to.
But she was really in terrible shape when she got over here.
Her face and her arms, oh, she was badly bruised.
And I just don't think that kind of thing probably, somebody who had perpetrated that would have been probably out right now.
And so it's hard to say.
All of that, that whole concept of abuse, that was buried for a very long time.
It really was.
But now, I mean, this is part of it.
This is part of the culture.
You have to be careful now that you don't go overboard and somebody is making up some of this stuff on the other side of that.
And I can see how this would happen, too.
This is a very sticky business.
And of course, lawyers are kept in big business doing this harassment detail.
Did you ever see a couple of students doing a little too much embracing?
I actually didn't, right down in the reference where I was.
But I'm sure it went on big time here, because as I said before, we did have all these nooks and crannies, too.
Noise?
Noise, in a university library, you have to expect noise.
Now, to this day, when I go into the public libraries, either the Bryan or College Station, not so much the College Station one, but the Bryan one,
You always have the feeling that you shouldn't be talking loud.
But I always talk loud.
I mean, I always talked in my normal speaking voice here.
You have to.
Maybe a library is a quiet place to study, but that's, I think, probably more a thing of the past.
But particularly, as I say, not for a university library.
University libraries are very, very busy places.
The, back to chronology, Dr. Hoadley came in the early 70s, and the library had been expanded, but not as large as it is now.
Did you all think that we were making progress, that the library was moving forward in the 70s?
Well, we had to.
We didn't have a choice, but the enrollment was expanding dramatically.
And since we had taken women in, I think the ratio is still more men than there are women here.
53-47.
Is that what it is?
Well, that's not as much as I thought it was.
But anyway, we had to.
There was no way to have gone except
expand as we are expanding.
And I, from the sound of things, you're not through expanding with this plan, what is it, your 20?
Vision.
Vision, yeah.
Well, see they're already getting input on that from the people in the library and I'm hearing rumors about that too.
You know, they'll have to expand somewhere.
Of course, they did expand.
There was a medical library and there was a west campus library.
But that didn't come until, well, the medical library must have started in the 70s.
But the west campus business and computer center didn't start until 80s, I don't believe.
As you became acquainted with professionals elsewhere, other libraries, did you have the impression that the pace of our change was appropriate compared to what others were doing?
Oh, I think so.
I really do.
We never could compare ourselves to the University of Texas, not ever.
And maybe they can start doing that now, but even so, I don't think the liberal arts could ever catch up.
We aren't going to have a law school here.
I mean, we may be on a system.
This university has a system just like UT has a system, but it's not ever going to be the same.
And I think you wouldn't want it to.
If you're really honest about it, you don't really want it to be the same.
You want it to have its particular atmosphere that it has.
It's never really lost that.
It's still Aggieland.
And it's always going to be A land.
As you became an administrator, and before that, before you became an administrator, did you feel that you were being fairly judged and evaluated?
How did you know whether you were measuring up to the expectations of your?
Well, I don't, you know, I think as I started out by saying Irene Hoadley had very definite ideas about people.
We all in the social science, well we all in the public services, I should expand this, all of us in the public services were sure that she was
had great preference to the librarians in the technical services.
And I don't think that was always true.
But she had, I think Evelyn King had a very difficult time.
Henry Alsmeyer had a very difficult time as in public services dealing with the director.
Some, not everybody did, not everybody did, but I, you know, they were very, Evelyn King was wonderful to work for because she really was, cared about her people.
Someone else that has had a controversial career is Dr. Jackson.
She was, you know, if you worked for her,
You know, and she demanded loyalty, and that was fine.
She had wonderful organizational skills, absolutely wonderful, and she's brilliant.
She's brilliant.
Well, a science librarian, there's no question about it.
But the day of being tough on, you know, the days of being really tough on people who aren't quite up to par
I mean, you don't deal with it quite in the way that has been dealt with it in recent years.
Now, I'm not talking about when I was working for her because I have great, great respect
for her and her essay.
I don't know anybody in the library who had better organizational skills.
When we were talking about alter egos, the director told her one time that she, Kathy Jackson, was her alter ego.
Irene didn't like actual confrontation, but she absorbed enough of Machiavellian theory
to know how to play that game, and she did a mighty good job of it.
One of our assistant directors was by the name of Noreen Aldridge, and we called her the hatchet person.
I don't know if she was here, if you remember her or not.
She was followed by
by a very, a gal that was very good.
And then after that, Dr. Jay Poole came in.
He was great.
He was wonderful.
He had, he was the hero of the staff.
One time we had, this is really one of those, one of those anecdotal stories.
We'd had a power outage, can you, if you can, you can well imagine.
And the director,
The staff was just miserable.
I mean, everything was off.
It was the middle of the summer, and everything went off, all air conditioning, everything was off.
And it gets pretty stuffy in this complex.
Jay Poole, on his own, without asking permission, went over to Grounds Maintenance and got us fans, old-fashioned fans.
We had these huge fans over here.
Well, that cost one of the biggest flaps.
A real shouting match we had between the assistant director and the director.
Well, that is one of the memorable stories I have.
What was the outcome of that?
There was a draw.
We still kept them.
We had the fans till the power came back on.
What was the reason for the opposition to the fans?
Well, she didn't want to have to spend the money.
Oh, oh.
See, money was the big key.
You know, you don't, staff comfort is not first priority.
Right.
As far as you people at the real working level were aware, Dr. Hoadley's first priority of expenditure was technology.
And what else were high priority expenditure?
Well, as I said early on, with the technology, she wanted to have that state of the art, all of the computer stuff come in here that was state of the art.
Okay.
It seemed from our standpoint that that, maybe this is just library politics, I don't know, but it went on for so long that we didn't think about it anymore.
We just accepted it as part of the game.
That's the way it was.
Her preference was the technical services.
public services you could just you know limp along the way we were and most of the time it seemed to me we were because we either were understaffed and or or else we were is and some some crisis and then we as we started to build as we started to really expand we were
drastically out of room.
Just really, we didn't have space for anything.
On the, I don't know if you remember, we had on the third floor of Evans, that's this building, we had a curriculum collection at the College of Education's curriculum collection.
We had textbooks, we had
Well, you know, teachers, manuals of all sorts.
We had to, I don't know what we were going to move, what we were planning to do, but we had to get rid of some of it.
And I said, well, some of this, I think, you know, is not ephemeral.
But some of this will be, some of this is outdated when we can,
And we can kind of let this disappear.
It's not called weeding.
That's a bad word.
The W word is bad.
It's called deacquisitioning or some euphemism like that.
But still, here again is one example of one of those times when you have to, just for space purposes, you've got to get rid of stuff because you're taking stuff in.
We had mixed up with all of the curriculum collection, we had the telephone books up there on the third floor.
Now, that was an interesting combination.
The poor student's assistants trying to keep all of that clutter.
This is unreal.
So anyway, some of the so-called valuable
some of the so-called valuable materials in education did disappear, and to no real detriment to anyone except a big brouhaha about it.
Looking back in all of your years, can you recall some things that the A&M Library got rid of that we now wish we hadn't?
No, I don't think so.
Now maybe you as a faculty member, I don't really think so.
I don't really think so.
Now they still have, you know, like the, now I'm very much into the public libraries sales that they're having.
And I know the A&M, I know this library has sales even now, according to Charles Smith.
And so I know that that's still,
going, but, you know, you have to get, you know, do you know Larry Ringer?
Yeah, well, he is one of my very favorite people in this world.
And Larry has been, is treasurer of the Friends of the Bryan College Station Public Library System.
And he said the other day at a board meeting, he said, you know, we're not trying to make money.
We're trying to get rid of some of these books.
I wish you could see some of the books that come in to the public library because you don't, I mean, I'm just horrified.
A lot of them we'll put out on the, we will put out on the free table as we call it and they're gone, you know, not just,
not just hours, but minutes.
There are a lot of people who just love to pick up stuff.
But nowadays, there are some homeschool mothers who come and get those books.
And a lot of the books that I wouldn't want anybody to use
A lot of things that come in there I've had to throw away because of the condition that they're in.
Now, I don't know how they work.
I don't know how the deacquisitioning goes over here anymore.
I'm out of that a long time ago.
But anyway, you can't keep everything all the time forever.
That's just one of the bottom lines.
And I don't know, you know, I keep telling Bob,
You know, what happens when we're gone and our children have to shovel us out?
You know, it concerns me, because I've had to take care of three estates in the last few years, and it's no fun, you know.
A lifetime collections, you know, and it's not easy.
I'm grinning because I'm a book acquirer.
I know you are.
And I've also seen your basket, I've also seen your wonderful collection, your pottery collection.
It's really marvelous.
Do you, in all of your experience here, do you remember any opportunities we missed, something we could have acquired that we didn't, a collection or a special item or anything?
Do you remember any stories of that?
I don't think so.
I think at a certain time there was money set aside for that, it seems to me.
I had to go over to North Carolina to pick up some.
I had Betty Unterberger look at some of the things that were on.
I think it was mostly European history.
But those book dealers are smart.
They throw in all these remainders, and then you have to take that when you buy the collection.
So what do you do when you get a few nice things?
But you have to buy it as a package.
You get a few nice things that somebody really wants, but then you have to take all this other junk.
That would be the big thing.
It's not like going to Sotheby's or someplace like that and just getting a pristine painting or a pristine first edition of something wonderful.
It's not like that at all.
Describe as much as you can the Texas A&M Friends of the Library group.
The A&M Library group?
I found out from Don Dial that that group, the Friends had been in existence since the 70s.
He told me that the other day.
I didn't realize that.
I just have been joining the Friends since I've been retired.
I didn't even know.
They were very active in things.
Before we just mention Don Don, let me tell you how impressed I am with that.
Really, I was almost in tears the first time I came back and saw what Don had done over there.
Over where?
You know, to the Cushing building, the restoration of the Cushing building.
You know, what it used to be was a student bench.
Describe what it used to look like.
Well, when I, well of course at first over there where we were, we were in, it was, it was still when I first came in 67.
it hadn't gotten to be a student bending area.
And just a noisy place to be.
The molding, the lovely molding, I don't know.
I think it's just a miracle that that came back to look the way it does now.
I think it's just wonderful, really, really wonderful what he's done.
And it took a great deal of work to get it that way, I know, and I'm sure, and I feel that he is largely responsible for getting that.
I'm sure he had many friends, many of the friends were responsible for helping to restore that, and to the degree to which it was.
Well, anyway, I think we had, the director, Irene Holy, wanted to paint
everything, she had white enamel put on everything.
Well, anyway, enough of that.
Now, for my own placement, you retired when?
I retired in 1994.
I worked 27 years.
I was planning, I was 69 when I retired.
The reason I retired rather precipitously is my sister, my only sibling, developed lung cancer and she lived in San Francisco in a three story walk up in the Marina area.
And I didn't think at that time that I could
could just go out there and be with her, so we brought her here to live with us.
And subsequently, she died in December.
We brought her in the summer of 94.
She died in December of 94.
And I just could not work.
I felt that I had to retire.
Otherwise, I would have stayed on until my 70th year, which would have been the following year.
But that was just one of those things that happened.
I was able to get in on some of the new regime.
Dr. Fred Heath has done a wonderful, wonderful job.
I'm so sorry he hadn't been here earlier in the...
When did he get here?
I think he got, well it's only been about, let's see, I've been retired seven years.
Okay.
I think he came at least two years, maybe two years before that.
Before you retired.
Before I retired.
Right.
So.
Dr. Hoadley retired and moved to the Hill Country.
And describe as much as you recall the search process that led to Dr. Heath's selection.
As a matter of fact, I,
I really don't know if I was in on very much of that.
I don't really remember a lot of that.
But I'm sure that just like anything now, it's a very cut and dry search process and a lot goes into it.
A lot of time, a lot of effort by a lot of people goes into this search process.
And you have candidates visit.
And I don't remember, I might have heard a presentation he gave, I vaguely remember that, but I don't remember being any part of the selection process at all.
But as far as you and your colleagues were aware this was a fair and open process?
Oh yes, yes, oh yes, definitely from that standpoint I think all of the staff was involved.
Did everybody feel, as far as you know, that they made a good choice when they selected him?
Yes, I think so.
What were the positive first impressions?
Well, he was extremely well prepared, for one thing.
And he, you know, he didn't... Well prepared?
Well prepared with his presentation.
And he gave an online kind of a demonstration, which was very well received by the staff.
And he'd done his homework, you know, to know what was here, to the strengths, the weaknesses.
He'd done his homework.
Now, were you all aware that he had been a faculty member and a librarian?
I probably was, yeah.
From the way he came in here to begin with, I felt that he was.
Did he seem sensitive to this institution?
I would say yes.
And I mean, he was again more of a people, in quote, people person than some administrators.
So we felt that, and as I say, I wasn't here very long when he was here and he had a lot
on his plate with all of this moving into the annex and all of that.
That was a big, big job.
Did he bring anyone with him?
Not that I know of.
So were there any sudden changes when he arrived?
No, I don't think so.
I don't think so.
But you're giving the impression there was a positive?
Oh, everybody, yeah.
I think he was for sure the choice of the staff, the librarians.
Did you all get any impression of what his goals were?
All I could really feel that he, I think,
I think his mission must have been to do this tremendous reorganization that we were going through at that particular time.
But as I said early on, this place has always been reorganizing.
There's nothing new there.
However, logistically, this was going to be a really big task, really big.
If you had been his chief consultant,
What would you have advised him to have as his priorities?
I think that probably every time, I think that he probably realized this, and I wouldn't have had to tell him, to give the staff genuine input.
And I think he was one that really, really did that.
Now, I don't know whether that's all how things have worked out.
But I think he really wanted their input.
And of course, not all.
not with conflicting sides of the library, that probably would have, he would have conflicting versions of what was important, what was not important.
I mean, that's going to be true anywhere.
Anyway, I don't think that with Fred there was this feeling that if you, you know, if
As I said, Irene always wanted the pot boiling, but she would never take anybody's decision, actually.
I think that Dr. Heath would have taken it.
If somebody had a good idea, I think he would incorporate it and give them credit for it.
That's another part of that coin, give them credit for it.
So when Fred Heath came, morale went up.
Oh, definitely went up, yeah.
And I don't mean to say that they aren't having the same nitty-gritty and the same people aren't trying to maneuver the show.
But then, anyway, that's going to be, but this is true in any department or any viable organization.
During the...
80s and 90s, as presidents came and went, were you all aware of any difference among the presidents in their concern for the library?
Well, of course, Frank Vandiver was always, you know, he was a library user, but I would expect him to be a library user.
He is a scholar, a writer, a scholar.
Who else was here?
I don't know.
I'm trying to remember
I'm trying to remember some of the people who were library users.
And I'm not saying that people in science, I think I've given the impression that faculty in science and technology never came over here.
That's not true.
That is not true.
It's just that I had more experience with liberal arts and social sciences faculty than I did with the other, although I certainly have had experience with all of them.
in a general reference way.
And I certainly had more experience with science and technology when I moved into documents for that brief period of time.
I have an anecdote.
This is to the typist.
Add this as an editorial note.
In the late 60s, I was chairman of the library committee.
And there was a big effort then to bring into the main library what were then the branch libraries for business, architecture, and chemistry.
And business and architecture agreed quickly.
Chemistry held out, held out, held out.
No, no, no.
And since that building was only one block away from the library, it did not seem to the rest of us to be a long walk from that building to the library.
Finally, we had a public meeting one evening in the Cushing Library to discuss this matter.
Dr. Horace Byers, a truly distinguished geoscientist from the University of Chicago, was then our vice president for academic affairs.
We didn't use the provost title then.
And he agreed to come and hear the debate and then offer any opinion he might have.
Finally, at the critical moment in the discussion,
The head of the chemistry department said something like this.
Well, I had not wanted to say it this bluntly.
But we scientists do not have time to waste walking from our laboratory to the library like you social science and humanities people do.
At this point, Dr. Byers closed the meeting and announced that the consolidation would occur.
That statement terminated the chemistry branch of the library.
Okay, end of statement.
Do you remember ever any celebrities, campus celebrities being shown through the library?
Any notables getting a tour of the library?
Oh, you mean notables like Dr. Cotton or somebody like that?
Or anybody?
No.
I don't really, I don't think I do.
Don't remember a governor or a president?
I don't think a governor or president are ever going.
I don't think they'd take.